README.md, before:

# 🧠 Customer Churn Prediction using Machine Learning

This project focuses on predicting customer churn — identifying customers who are likely to stop using a company’s service.
By applying machine learning algorithms, the project helps businesses make data-driven decisions to reduce customer loss and improve retention strategies.

## 🎯 Objectives

Analyze customer data to understand churn behavior.

Build predictive models to classify customers as churned or retained.

Compare different ML algorithms for performance.

Provide insights through data visualization.

## ⚙️ Tools & Technologies

Programming Language: Python

Libraries: Pandas, NumPy, Scikit-learn, Matplotlib, Seaborn

Environment: Jupyter Notebook

## 📊 Workflow

Data Preprocessing – Handle missing values, encode categorical features, and scale data.

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) – Visualize churn patterns and correlations.

Model Building – Apply and compare ML models:

Logistic Regression

KNeighbors Classifier

Support Vector Classifier

Decision Tree Classifier

Random Forest Classifier

Model Evaluation – Use metric like Accuracy


## 📈 Results

The Support Vector Classifier model provided the most accurate churn predictions.

Key features influencing churn include tenure, monthly charges, and contract type.

## 📂 Dataset

Dataset Source: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/abdullah0a/telecom-customer-churn-insights-for-analysis

## 🚀 How to Use
## Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Indra9919/Customer-Churn-Prediction-.git

## Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

## Open the Jupyter Notebook
jupyter notebook Customer_Churn_Prediction.ipynb

## 💡 Conclusion

This project demonstrates how machine learning can help predict and reduce customer churn by identifying at-risk customers and enabling proactive retention efforts.

## 👨‍💻 Author

 Indra Kumar Prajapati
 📧 9919indrakumar@gmail.com

🌐 www.linkedin.com/in/indra-prajapati-109988280

Commit message:

Add live demo link to README
Added a section for a live demo of the Streamlit app.

README.md, after:

# 🧠 Customer Churn Prediction using Machine Learning

This project focuses on predicting customer churn — identifying customers who are likely to stop using a company’s service.
By applying machine learning algorithms, the project helps businesses make data-driven decisions to reduce customer loss and improve retention strategies.

## 🎯 Objectives

Analyze customer data to understand churn behavior.

Build predictive models to classify customers as churned or retained.

Compare different ML algorithms for performance.

Provide insights through data visualization.

## ⚙️ Tools & Technologies

Programming Language: Python

Libraries: Pandas, NumPy, Scikit-learn, Matplotlib, Seaborn

Environment: Jupyter Notebook

## 📊 Workflow

Data Preprocessing – Handle missing values, encode categorical features, and scale data.

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) – Visualize churn patterns and correlations.

Model Building – Apply and compare ML models:

Logistic Regression

KNeighbors Classifier

Support Vector Classifier

Decision Tree Classifier

Random Forest Classifier

Model Evaluation – Use metric like Accuracy


## 📈 Results

The Support Vector Classifier model provided the most accurate churn predictions.

Key features influencing churn include tenure, monthly charges, and contract type.

## 🚀 Live Demo
[Click here to view the Streamlit App](https://your-app-name.streamlit.app)


## 📂 Dataset

Dataset Source: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/abdullah0a/telecom-customer-churn-insights-for-analysis

## 🚀 How to Use
## Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Indra9919/Customer-Churn-Prediction-.git

## Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

## Open the Jupyter Notebook
jupyter notebook Customer_Churn_Prediction.ipynb

## 💡 Conclusion

This project demonstrates how machine learning can help predict and reduce customer churn by identifying at-risk customers and enabling proactive retention efforts.

## 👨‍💻 Author

 Indra Kumar Prajapati
 📧 9919indrakumar@gmail.com

🌐 www.linkedin.com/in/indra-prajapati-109988280
